in this video,
we're going to explain the percentage difference from calculation.
So this is similar to the difference from calculation.
Except the result is a percentage.
It calculates the percentage off difference instead of giving us just the difference.
So see that with an example.
Let's do the same thing here that we've done on the previous video on the difference from
video.
So I'm gonna calculate the difference between a particular month and the previous month.
So I'm gonna drag another instance here of the submission of the sales amount and then
click on it,
go to value field settings,
click on show values as.
And then instead of no calculation,
I'm gonna select percentage difference from,
and it's gonna be the difference from the base field being the sales month and then
previous.
So now we're going to get the percentage of difference between a particular month and the
previous month,
and we're going to give it a custom name percentage difference from previous month,
and we're going to click OK,
here.
So,
as you can see here,
this is giving us the percentage of difference between a particular month and a previous
month.
So the calculation here being done is,
for example,
for February 2016 were actually subtracting the value of January,
which is 330,181 from February.
So it's 29,549 minus 330,000 181.
So we're going to get the difference this way.
And then we're gonna divide that by 330,000 181 which is the value for previous month.
Okay,
so it's basically current month minus previous month,
divided by previous month.
So this is what gives us the result here.
And the result here is negative.
91.5%.
Same goes for march,
for example here 313% 3130.51.
So that's basically current 1 122,189 minus previous month,
which is 29,549 divided by previous month,
which is 29549th and this gives us 313 0.51%.
We could also do the percentage difference from previous year.
We're gonna drag another instance here of the sales amount,
go to some,
click on it,
go to value field settings and then show values as and then here,
the percentage difference from and the base field here.
We're going to select the year and we're going to select for the previous year.
Click OK here.
And as you can see here we get the percentage of difference from previous year.
So here,
for example,
negative 39.64% is basically the value for January 17 minus the value for January 16
divided by the value for January 16th.
This gives us negative 39.64% on actually forgot to rename it here.
So I'm going to rename it,
which is percentage difference from previous year and click OK,
here.
As you can see here,
this is the percentage difference from previous year.
And we can give a custom number formatting here for two columns,
So I'm going to select them and then press control and one on my keyboard and then go to
custom here and then for the custom number,
formatting is gonna be 0.0% for positive numbers,
and then I'm gonna put a semi colon and then for the negative numbers year is gonna be
negative 0.0%.
And then with red in between square brackets.
And this means that there get of numbers,
will have a red phone.
12 positive numbers will have a black fund,
and the negative numbers will have the negative sign as well.
And if you need to learn more about custom number formatting and understand exactly what
these symbols mean,
I have a video on my YouTube channel,
the Excel custom number formatting masterclass,
where I show you everything about because the number formatting and what these symbols mean
.
So I'd recommend you watch this video.
It's just that this course is not a custom number formatting Course,
I'm not going to go into detail about the topic,
and I'll leave you The link for the YouTube video in the Resource is section.
So I'm gonna click OK,
here.
And as you can see here,
we now managed to color the negative numbers in red.
We could also do the same thing here about comparing to the Americas as we did on the
previous video.
So I'm going to drag another instance here of the sales amount and then click on it,
value fuel settings and then show values as.
And then instead of no calculation,
we're gonna be doing percentage difference from And then the base field is gonna be the
region and that it's gonna be compared to the Americas,
So percentage difference from America's.
And then we're gonna click.
OK,
here.
As you can see here we get the percentage of difference from the Americas.
So this number here is basically the sales for Australia,
minus the sails for America's divided by the sales for America's.
And now we can give our column here some custom number formatting.
So I'm going to select it,
press control and one on my keyboard and then go to custom here,
and then it's gonna be 0.0% and then a semi colon and then negative 0.0% with red in
between square brackets and I'm gonna click OK,
here.
As you can see here,
our negative differences here have been highlighted in red and again.
If you need to learn more about custom number formatting,
I'll leave you the link for my YouTube video.
And the resource is section.
Okay,
so that's it,
guys.
For the percentage of difference from calculation.
Thank you very much for watching this video.
I'll see on the next.